


## Different Ecosystems’ Plant Community Responses to the Interactive Effects of Resource Limitation, Asymmetric Competition, and Microbial Communities
#### Introduction: 
The purpose of this project is to use the data found on the Dyrad from the research article "Teasing Apart Plant Community Responses to N Enrichment: The Role of Resource Limitation, Competition, and Soil Microbes" to recreate the analyze of the three different ecosystem interactions to manipuation of resources, competition, and the soil microbial community. The goal is to enhance my ability to clean, interpret, analyze, and visual the data. In order to this, I will be following the stastitical analyses that the authors, Katharine Suding and Emily Farrer, performed on this data (ANOVA and redundancy analysis). In addition, by going through the process of analyzing the data I will come out with a stronger understanding of not only the statistical, but also the biological results of this experiment.  Thus, my question will be similar to the authors: **how does the alpine tundra, tallgrass prairie, and desert grassland response changes in resource limitation, asymmetric competition and microbial communities?**
#### Summary of Data to be Analyzed: 
The goal of the original study was to better understand the importance of the mechanisms driving the effects of nitrogen on productivity, diversity, and plant species composition. More specifically, Suding and Farrer wanted to test the hypothesis that aspects of plant response are driven by the distinct aspect of environmental change that is associated with nitrogen enrichment like resource limitation, asymmetric competition, and the interactions that occur with the soil microbial community.  In addition, to look at how strongly this effect takes place in different systems they decided to look at tallgrass praire, alpine tundra, and desert grassland ecosystems. 
##### Methodology 
The authors used greenhouse mesocosm experiments by manipulating the treatments in all factorial combinations to examine the interactive effects of resource limitation in terms of nitrogen, competition asymmetry, and microbial community on the productivity, diversity, and plant species composition of tall grass prairie, alpine tundra, and desert grassland. They manipulated resource limitation with nitrogen fertilization, competition asymmetry with low planting density, and microbial communities with soil inoculum (from control vs. nitrogen fertilized field plots). They replicated each treatment combination six times in the factorial design which means there were 48 treatment mesocosms per system (tall grass prairie, alpine tundra, and desert grassland). 
	These three systems were associated with three LTER sites where the tall grass prairie was connected with Konza, Kansas, the alpine tundra was connected with Niwot Ridge, Colorado, and the desert grassland was connected with Sevilleta, New Mexico. They selected nine species from each site (based on abundance, functional group, and seed availability). For the soil the authors approximated the soil characteristics at each site and diluted it based on the site. For soil inoculum, it was collected from each site where long-term fertilization experiments were occurring. The authors wanted to test the effect of a microbial community on plant measurements so they also planted more mesocosms that had autoclaved inoculum instead of lie inoculum.  
	The data is a csv that is in long format and has 36 columns with 161 rows. Compared to some data files this one is very clean.  The only issues I forsee is the fact that there are many NAs in the data file because there are certain column names dedicated to species that only occur in a certain ecosystem (tallgrass prairie vs alpine tundra). The data represented how nitrogen affects resource limitation, competition asymmetry, and the microbial community by looking at productivity, diversity, and plant species composition in three systems: alpine tundra, tall grass prairie, and the desert grassland.
#### Detailed Description of Analysis to be Done and Challenges Involved
 I would like to use the data to test their hypotheses and see if I am able to get the same results because I will know exactly what I am working towards which will help me be able map a clear idea of how I need to analyze the data. To do this I need to analyze how fertilization, assymetric competition (based on density), and microbes (based on the microbal innoculum) effected productivity, diversity, and plant species composition. My challenge will be figuring out how to manipulate the data to run the statistical tests (ANOVA and the redundancy analysis). I will first import the data into R and check it over for NAs, what type of data it is, the type object each column is, and if the names are all spelled correctly. Then as the researchers did I will make another column to calculate the relative abundance of biomass for each species to represent community composition. I will then separate the data into three different objects based on the systems: apline tundra, tallgrass prairie, and desert grassland to make it easier to analyze. Next, I will have to figure out what I want to do with the NAs. My thought process is that since I have separated the systems I can just delete the columns that contain species that do not belong to that particular species which will get rid of all the NAs. To gather a better understanding of the patterning of data I will graph each predictor against each response variable. Next, I will run ANOVA and redundancy analysis. This will be another challenge for me because I have never done redundancy analysis, but I feel it is always good to learn another statistical test. After running all of the statistical analyses I will visualize the results uising ggplot and compare how the treatments affected the three systems. 
#### Reference
Farrer, Emily C.; Suding, Katharine N. (2017), Data from: Teasing apart plant community responses to N enrichment: the roles of resource limitation, competition and soil microbes, Dryad, Dataset, [https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.mj0sf](https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.mj0sf)
#### Data Archive
https://datadryad.org/stash/downloads/file_stream/66664




